Updates from the past year (#14)
codewars/blog: content/2021/2020-01-21_whats-new/index.md

+++

> title = "What has 2020 brought to us?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title = "Updates from the past year"
```

"2020 brought" reminds me of COVID.

Can you change the file name as well? And the date in the filename needs to be fixed to use 2021.

Author: The date in the file name was a typo.

description = "A lot has been done, a lot more to do!"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["announcement", "changelog", "improvements", "runner", "new-language", "documentation", "moderation"]
+++

> Year 2020 and beginning of 2021 was a very busy period for Codewars maintainers. We worked hard on improving the platform, and on fixing existing bugs which were getting in a way of further improvements. We were looking for ways and ideas how to get closer to Codewars users. At the same time we managed to introduce a few new languages to train on, upgraded some language versions, and provided some means to support users and new-comers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The year 2020 and the beginning of 2021 was a very busy period for Codewars maintainers. We worked hard on improving the platform, and on fixing existing bugs that were getting in a way of further improvements. We were looking for ways and ideas on how to get closer to Codewars users. At the same time, we managed to introduce a few new languages to train on, upgraded some language versions, and provided some means to support users and newcomers.
```

## New blog

> We migrated the Codewars blog to new platform, and plan to use it for announcements for the Codewars community. We will post here information and updates about new features, improvements, and we will call for your help when we need one. Blog posts will show up on the dashboard of the main site, what will hopefully help to bring the Codewars closer to its users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We migrated the Codewars blog to a new platform, and plan to use it for announcements for the Codewars community. We will post here information and updates about new features, improvements, and we will call for your help when we need one. Blog posts will show up on the dashboard of the main site, which will hopefully help to bring the Codewars closer to its users.
```

## New languages

> 2020 brought a large set of new languages which users can train on, create new kata, and translate existing kata to! Most of them is still in beta stage, and contibutions in form of new kata or translations will be very helpful. Many languages were also updated to new versions. Some of the added languages are Lean, COBOL, Perl, Pascal, but these are not the only ones! More details will be provided in a dedicated post.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2020 brought a large set of new languages which users can train on, create new kata, and translate existing kata to! Most of them are still in the beta stage, and contributions in form of new kata or translations will be very helpful. Many languages were also updated to new versions. Some of the added languages are Lean, COBOL, Perl, Raku, and Pascal, but these are not the only ones! More details will be provided in a dedicated post.
```

Many thanks to all users who provided their support on setting up the code runner and created new content for introduced languages!

## Refactoring and improvements

> Refactoring was probably the biggest topic of all activities related to Codewars conducted in recent time. Thanks to code cleanup, reducing technical debt, and even total rewrite of some elements, it was possible to improve performance in the backend, and improve user experience and navigation on the frontend. Getting rid of some messy code also enabled maintainers to provide futher improvements in the future, which, until now, were very difficult to add.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refactoring was probably the biggest topic of all activities related to Codewars conducted in recent time. Thanks to code cleanup, reducing technical debt, and even total rewrite of some elements, it was possible to improve performance in the backend and improve user experience and navigation on the frontend. Getting rid of some messy code also enabled maintainers to provide further improvements in the future, which, until now, were very difficult to add.
```

## Documentation

> Addressing the needs of new users and questions of many experienced ones, new [documentation site](https://docs.codewars.com/) has been launched. Documentation is meant to be created by community, so everyone can write articles, review drafts, suggest improvements, or fix any issues using [codewars/docs](https://github.com/codewars/docs) GitHub repository. Documentation is still a work in progress, but when it gets into an acceptably good shape, it will replace the old Codewars wiki.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Addressing the needs of new users and questions of many experienced ones, a new [documentation site](https://docs.codewars.com/) has been launched. Documentation is meant to be created by the community, so everyone can write articles, review drafts, suggest improvements, or fix any issues using [codewars/docs](https://github.com/codewars/docs) GitHub repository. The documentation is still a work in progress, but when it gets into an acceptably good shape, it will replace the old Codewars wiki.
```

More information on documentation will be provided in a dedicated announcement. Every contribution is welcome!

## Community moderation team

> To take some maintenance burden off of administators' back, the [Codewars Community Moderation Team](https://docs.codewars.com/community/moderation/#members) has been formed, and provided with a variety of tools to manage content, handle problematic users, support users, and perform other moderation tasks. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To take some maintenance burden off of the administrators' back, the [Codewars Community Moderation Team](https://docs.codewars.com/community/moderation/#members) has been formed and provided with a variety of tools to manage content, handle problematic users, support users, and perform other moderation tasks. 
```

> More information on moderation team will be provided in a dedicated announcement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information on the moderation team will be provided in a dedicated announcement.
```

## Incoming in 2021

> In the upcoming time we plan to work on further improvements to the platform, extending tools available for moderators, and creating more articles for documentation. We want to bring Codewars and users closer together, so will keep announcing incoming changes and ask for your help when we need one. We would also like to give a big thanks to our community for continued support and participation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the upcoming time, we plan to work on further improvements to the platform, extending tools available for moderators, and creating more articles for documentation. We want to bring Codewars and users closer together, so will keep announcing incoming changes and ask for your help when we need one. We would also like to give a big thanks to our community for continued support and participation.
```
